I would love it the Fed could cut
interest rates. People are certainly
suffering, lower income consumers are
certainly hurting. The gas situation is
a problem.
Mortgage affordability or housing
affordability is very low and Parker's
rates are high. So, I would love rates
to come down. It's just not credible
right now for that to happen.
>> [music]
>> Hey everyone, I'm Telis Demos. This week
I'm joined by Aaron Back, editor of
Heard on the Street. Welcome, Aaron.
>> Hello.
>> Today we're going to have a big
conversation about the economy,
inflation, the Fed. And we're going to
do that with Joe LaVorgna. He is the
America's chief economist at SNBC, and
he was also formerly a counselor to
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent. Joe,
welcome to the show.
>> Thank you. Glad to be here.
>> So, like we said, you were recently
advising the Trump administration. Now
you're back on Wall Street. And of
course, the big kind of political news
in the economy is that uh Kevin Warsh is
now in his chair as the uh Trump
administration's chosen Fed chair. Uh
but you recently wrote uh in one of your
one of your first notes back back in the
the sort of the private sector, uh you
wrote that the Fed has an inflation
problem.
What do you mean by that?
>> I wrote I actually is is a one piece I
I've written. I've tried to be much more
selective. So, thank you for reading it.
And got a lot of good feedback.
>> Now it's an event when you write
something.
>> That's right. Well, a little bit, yeah.
You either either write all the time and
constantly or just do these bespoke
one-off pieces. And uh obviously I'm
very happy to be back at uh
at SNBC. Having actually done two Trump
tours, not just one, but two. I was
actually the chief economist of the
National Economic Council. On Kevin
Warsh's role, the you know, he's I think
he'll do a great job because he's going
to be able to be persuasive and build a
consensus with people. But in the note,
I basically highlighted the fact that
inflation, which has been above the
Fed's target for 5 years, and even if
you look at the last couple of years, uh
it's been substantially above target,
about 75-80 basis points above target.
Uh and it's likely to go up more in
lagged effect or lagged response what's
happening in the Middle East, not just
energy prices, but all the commodity
derivatives from energy and all the
things energy impacts, whether it's
services, manufacturing, manufactured
goods, plastics, transportation costs.
Unfortunately, if you're traveling this
summer, your airfares are going to be
more the airlines will likely add
surcharges or cut back on flights. So,
all these things just cause a problem
for the incoming Fed chair. I'm
confident he'll be able to deal with it,
but again, it's not the optimal position
to be in.
>> And when when you say an inflation
problem, do you mean the things you just
mentioned, they all basically stem from
oil prices, right? Does the Fed have
just a straightforward moves problem or
is it bigger than that?
>> So, it's bigger than that. If you go
back to the
basically back in 2020, President Trump
passed a 900 billion plus stimulus
package in December after the economy
already had been in a V-shaped recovery.
Then you fast forward to March of '21,
the Biden administration passed a nearly
two trillion dollar stimulus bill that
even people like Larry Summers, Olivier
Blanchard, very well-known economists on
on the left side were saying this was
really going to post some real inflation
problems. You got a lot of inflation.
So, you had almost three trillion in
stimulus with an economy that was
clearly recovering and and reopening.
Um, and then of course inflation came
down a bit when the Fed started hiking,
but arguably they waited too long to
hike. The bigger issue though has been
that since the Fed stopped hiking in '23
and has begun cutting, they began
cutting in September '24, you you've had
inflation remain very sticky and now
it's moving in the opposite direction.
So, the most recent phenomenon has been
energy-related. Uh, there was progress
being made late last year and I was
optimistic absent this Middle East
crisis that we would have a
disinflationary boom, the one big
beautiful bill, O triple B, is very
supply-side
um,
I don't want to say similar, but very
supply-side enhancing in terms of
lifting the economy's potential output.
But that all changed with the war in
Iran because it caused a huge energy
shock, a huge commodity shock that to me
is somewhat similar like a very
miniature version of COVID. Where you
know, you've got these supply
disruptions. You see it in the New York
Fed
uh global supply pressure index. You see
it in the various prices paid. That's a
problem that I wasn't anticipating that
has changed the outlook. So it's a whole
bunch of factors. It's not just
the inflation that began with too much
fiscal ease, but and the Fed being too
late, it's now an energy issue.
>> So you think it would be a mistake to
argue that well, this is going to pass
as soon as the war ends as the president
says, you know, oil prices will come
down like a lot.
>> to sound like an economist. It depends.
If the futures market is correct,
most of it will will dissipate.
Uh futures market has oil prices moving
back down at $70 or so in 12 months.
The question is though, can you get
still back to 2% even with that
relatively optimistic scenario in the
markets? I don't know. There's a lot of
other factors. How much is this AI build
out going to lift productivity? Did it
increase
um the economy's potential? Long term
I'm very upbeat that will happen. Uh
Kevin Warsh has adopted a similar view
to Greenspan, which is sort of a similar
environment where you had this huge cap
ex build and that
pushed inflation down and in the short
term it had the opposite effect. It's
reasonable to say inflation will fall uh
in the coming months once the war is
passed. The question is is it going to
be passed? Is it going to Is it a a
frozen conflict? Is there a resolution?
I don't know exactly what's going to
happen. You know, the the the old adage
is that the economics is downstream from
kind of the market technicals and
positioning and then you go you're
further downstream on geopolitics. So I
don't know the answer.
>> But you're prescribing some pretty tough
medicine. I mean a full 100 basis points
of hikes. That's pretty harsh.
>> So what I see is if you look at where
the inflation rate was in February
before the US
and Iran US attacked Iran
uh or got involved. I don't want to try
to be as apolitical as possible. Uh you
know, inflate headline inflation or core
inflation I running around 2 and 1/2% I
think it's going to go up to 3 and 1/2%
and it's a reasonably
I would say conservative forecast, but I
think it's a very defensible forecast.
Well, if rate if the inflation rate goes
up 100 basis points, you would expect
the Fed thinks monetary policy is
restrictive now and that's why people
have said the Fed needs to cut at least
up until recently, then you'd want to
have to raise rates at least 100 basis
points to offset that inflation that
inflation impetus. So, that's sort of
where it came down. It may be more.
>> But why the urgency? I think a lot of
other people see the same underlying
forces you're talking about, but think
that that just means the Fed will be on
pause for a while. They're not calling
for rate hikes until at least next year,
but you seem to
>> it kind of depends.
>> a little more urgency on it. Chris
Waller who's Chris has done a phenomenal
job with a very structured process. Fed
Governor Chris Waller.
>> Governor right trying to forecast
process of having a very systematized
approach to how monetary policy in the
economy works and he's been consistently
correct. He now has sort of flipped
where you know, he is leaning more
toward the direction of having to go
neutral, certainly neutral on their
directive, no easing bias and then
potentially hiking. The reason why I
think the Fed will have to go sooner is
as I said,
the longer if the economy is holding up,
if inflation goes further above target,
monetary policy actually becomes easier.
At the same time we're seeing inflation
expectations. You look at the Michigan
data, the University of Michigan data,
the 5-year, 10-year inflation
expectations, that's jumped recently.
>> consumers think what whether consumers
think inflation is going to stick around
for the long term or whether it's
transitory.
>> And then if you look at the New York
Fed, the 3-year inflation expectation
metrics, that's improved. I mean, you
don't want inflation expectations to
become unanchored. You don't want it to
become unmoored because then the Fed may
have to risk a more significant
tightening monetary policy, which is
essentially code words for recession. By
the way, let me just say, if you look at
inflation, you look at inflation needs
to get down. Let's say the core CPI,
core PC peaks at three something. We'll
be general. The old adage is economists
forecast to the decimal places they've
got a sense of humor. So, we could just
say three something.
>> And what what where is it now just for
context?
>> the headline I believe is around uh
three Is it 3.8 on CPI? I think it's 3.8
and the core is just under three.
Um it's well above two.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. The point is that on the inflation
uh that inflation rate has never come
down. Look at Okay, so you say, "Okay,
we got to fall at least a point on the
inflation, maybe a point and a half,
potentially two points, depending on
however bearish on inflation or bullish
on inflation you are."
>> We got to go from the four-ish to back
to 3.8
>> does it go from four to two? And you
look back and say, "Well, it's only
going from four to two cuz you had a
recession." Like it doesn't just
magically go back. So, to answer your
question about what do you do, if you're
an environment where inflation
expectations
are perhaps early stages becoming
unanchored and monet- and the economy is
doing reasonably well and the area of
the economy that's doing the best, the
AI tech build-out, is relatively
interest sensitive, if not totally
interest sensitive. The cost of capital
there is probably zero.
>> So, all these companies got to borrow a
lot of money to build out this
>> but look what they're Look at all these
IPOs that are coming in June, scheduled
to come. I mean, this is like it's not
hard to get capital. So, the point is is
that
the Fed, if it waits, could have a
problem. So, yes, in the short term
they're going to wait. And Kevin Warsh
will say, "Look, wait, let's look
through." And this is the argument that
Chris Waller and others have made. Look
through. We're not talking about
tightening in June, tightening in in
July. I don't think you're going to
tighten in September. But we've got to
lay the groundwork for the likelihood
that the next move is a hike.
Maybe it comes in December, late in the
year, after the midterms and when the
that puts out his forecast. But the
Fed's next one is likely to be a hike,
and it's unlikely it's going to be just
one or two moves, given where the
inflation dynamic is, unless you're more
pessimistic on the economy or if you
believe that the supply potential of the
economy has increased such that all of a
sudden we're going to disinflate.
Because in your macro textbooks, your
aggregate supply curve has had a huge
rightward and downward shift, which
means you have more output and lower
prices. That could happen. That's a
reasonable forecast. The Treasury
secretary, who I admire, effectively is
making that argument. Um, we'll see what
happens.
>> So, then the other big question is
if you're right and the next move is up,
not down,
how will President Trump react and what
does that mean for Warsh? Cuz he's been
thinking as he was like a powerful
>> going to react? Not well.
>> [laughter]
>> To his credit, he kept the script
recently what when they had the uh you
know, the the official swearing in in
the White House.
>> said Warsh is his own man and he'll make
his own decisions. You know, he's he's
seems to have laid that groundwork.
>> I hope it continues.
Kevin and his crew and the colleagues,
they're
they're going to follow the data and
where the data brings them. And
look,
I would love it if the Fed could cut
interest rates. People are certainly
suffering. Lower-end consumers are
certainly hurting. The gas situation is
a problem.
Mortgage affordability or housing
affordability is very low and Parker's
rates are high. So, I would love rates
to come down. It's just not credible
right now for that to happen.
I think I'm guessing the president
understands that. The secretary said a
few weeks ago, if I'm going to
paraphrase, you know, Fed can skip, you
don't need to cut now. We'll see. If you
got a positive inflation outlook and
this the the straight of heart moves
opens
and you got those disinflationary trends
which were present up to February 27th,
they may reassert themselves. I'd love
to be wrong if that's the case. I just
think that the economy is looking like
it's solid enough.
And just given the historical record,
you're not going to get inflation where
you want. Of course, they also said in
the note the Fed may decide, hey, look,
it is willing to tolerate higher
inflation. Maybe implicitly says that,
so they're not actually hiking, but
they're implicitly changing their target
and maybe the hikes don't come until
later. That's possible. I think it's
doubtful, but you know, not not zero
chance.
All right, we're going to take a quick
break. When we come back, we're going to
ask Joe LaVorgna about some of those
data triggers. And also, you mentioned a
couple things about AI and productivity.
I want to get back into that. We'll get
back to that right after the break.
All right, welcome back. Uh so, Joe, you
mentioned that the Fed is going to be
data dependent. Uh we've got pretty
interesting piece of data coming up this
week. We've got uh the jobs report, uh
labor market, unemployment rate.
What do you think we might see in that
report and how important will that be to
the folks who want to make the case that
we need to, you know, move aggressively
on rates?
>> The best argument what to look for is
the wage component because wage growth
has been slowing. Nominal wage growth
has been slowing.
Real wages have been getting compressed
because inflation
>> I mean, people are still making more
money, but not keeping up with
inflation.
>> Yes, and it's possible if you look at
headline CPI given where the it's going
to come out in the in the next month and
where wages are, you could actually be
negative.
But, the wage number is important
because if the wage number were to
accelerate at some point, which you'd
want to see, you want to see people make
faster wages, and ostensibly you want
that tied to faster productivity, which
is possible. But, if the wage number
does accelerate just on its own and
given the environment we're in, the Fed
likely becoming more hawkish, uh that's
going to be a problem because one of the
arguments you can make in the short term
why the Fed shouldn't raise rates is
that wages
aren't aren't accelerating. So, I'd be
looking at that. In terms of the job
market, the jobless claim numbers are
historically very low, which tells me
that regardless of what the data show in
terms of hiring, we're still in this low
hire, low fire environment. That's
unlikely to change until we see jobless
claims make a trend shift, and as I
said, they're very low, so it's not
happening.
>> Well, it seems like though it's a it's a
rock and a hard place because
as you mentioned, if if people's wages
aren't keeping up, that that's a reason
to try and stimulate the economy, get
things going, maybe leave rates where
they are. But, of course, the reason
that that's happening is because we have
this inflationary problem. So, I mean,
again, this is why
the situation in the Middle East and the
geopolitics have become so important
because if you looked at the first
handful of months in Trump 2.0, what you
saw is very strong real gains in real
wages that we call blue collar wages
which are in the employment data of the
non-supervisory production workers. This
isn't the professional managerial class.
These are everyday
Joes so to speak that that are going in
living often times paycheck to paycheck.
We saw real strong gains in the early
part of the of the Trump administration
and maybe we'll get them again but but
that was very positive. Unfortunately,
more recently we've we've not seen that.
We've seen the exact opposite.
>> I mean the other question is you
referenced it already but is there going
to be this AI productivity miracle that
allows for lower rates because the
economy can grow faster with lower
inflation? As an economist
what do you look to to kind of see is
that happening or not? How what how will
we know?
>> Only over a long period of time. I mean
what we have right now is you know
running 8 9 10% CapEx growth capital
spending growth in the GDP accounts and
if you're not hiring measure
productivity by definition goes up
because just output divided by by the
amount of people working.
Longer term it should be certainly
additive to the economy's potential
because I'm sure as you know I remember
when internet first started it was a
neat novel concept. You could be upbeat
and excited about what it could bring.
To me is the AI benefits are much more
tangible. You could see it. So I do
think it'll work. The problem in the
short term and this is what the Fed
thinks is that
this huge build out is raising demand
for capital and to the extent that's the
case and absorbing savings that would
tend to put upward pressure on the
neutral rate.
Which again if the Fed's looking at it
and say yeah maybe long term we need to
cut but again short term the balance of
risks is all moving toward the Fed not
cutting
changing the directive and then leaning
toward the the rate hikes. The question
is is how much can Kevin Warsh push back
against this?
>> So in other words in the short term the
AI boom means higher rates.
>> Yes, it could mean higher rates and my
reading of the Fed commentary is that
they're looking at this AI boom, all
else equal, as raising the neutral or
equilibrium rate or R star, which means
they're looking at the economy and
saying, you know what, monetary policy
is not that tight. And we thought it was
tight maybe a year or so ago, or maybe
even 6 months ago. Now we're not so
certain given the
the the the persistence
and magnitude of the spending boom,
maybe real rates for the next couple
years are going to be higher, nominal
rates are going to be higher. So
therefore, we're more inclined to hike
than cut. And then eventually you get
the disinflationary benefit from this,
but that payoff could be 2, 3, 4 years
from now or longer.
>> Yeah. We we talk in Heard on the Street
meetings all the time about
what seemed like the price inflationary
pressures of the AI build-out, right?
Chips, chips are in short supply. That's
pushing up prices.
Uh the electricity grid is being
strained. Copper prices. So
not not just the demand for capital, but
it just seems like the the the economic
activity around AI is for now an
inflationary force.
And I don't know how we judge how long
that lasts versus when the productivity
boom
kicks in.
>> Yeah. That's right. It's It's tough to
judge. And it's interesting because
there are a lot of parallels to the
1990s. Alan Greenspan wrestled with the
same question in the '90s. And there was
a whole debate, is the is the internet,
you know, and the internet boom
inflationary or disinflationary? And I'm
not sure they ever really had a
conclusive answer to that, actually.
>> Well, there was an interesting Vince
Reinhart commented in a Nick Timiraos
piece the other day. I just throw a
bunch of names out there. Um
name-dropping all over the place. He
said something that along the lines of
back then what they were looking at was
people using technology like the
internet to, you know, make things
faster, more productive, and cheaper.
Whereas the AI conversation we're having
today is so much around the companies
building it rather than the companies
using it. So maybe we're just not we're
not as quickly getting to that point
where we're using it. Though, you know,
you read about these layoffs all the
time now that are allegedly AI-driven.
So, may may maybe those things are kind
of bad sign for the labor market, but a
good sign for the productivity story.
>> And the thing is long-term AI like
almost certainly add jobs because we've
gone through these cycles of the past
couple hundred years where these new
technologies come out. They're
extraordinarily disruptive and they
create tremendous amount of frictions
and people can suffer. Uh the government
could do things to retrain or ease that
burden. I think it should. And you see
people nervous about it. You look at the
polling on AI. Public does not like it.
Uh but I ultimately will be additive.
The problem is it may take a business
cycle or two. And if a 20 years from now
we create all these newfangled
industries and jobs that didn't exist
today, like okay, great, but like what
about that 20-year transition period?
So, you could be both people could be
right. Yes, it could be transformative.
Yes, it could be disruptive. It could be
disinflationary. And it could lose a lot
of jobs, but it also ultimately
long-term can create a
uh you know, a lot of jobs. It's like
the old joke or adage of you know, I've
seen the future and it's uncertain. We
just simply we simply do not know. Uh
but looking back on the late '90s, to me
the AI does seem to be much more
transformative cuz you could use it in a
ways I've used it and I'm sure you have
as well in ways of wow, this is I could
do something really quick and really if
you know if the human capital to know
how to use it. And of course you have to
check. You don't want to take anything
blindly, but I just I just find it much
more fascinating tool where I could see
like the potential. And and I I don't
know if you had to be a real creative
thinker I think to see that back in
1999, 2000.
>> What are your thoughts about the
consumer? Uh we're constantly debating,
you know, on the one hand
you know, the stock market is doing
well. That puts a lot of money in
people's pockets. On the other hand,
there's you know, the segment of people
who don't own stock market wealth and
they are talking about they're they're
seeing their wages decline in real
terms.
What what role is the consumer playing
in your economic outlook at the moment?
>> Depressed spending relative to what the
pre
uh Iran trend was because inflation was
running, let's say, around 2 and 1/2%. 2
and 1/2 to 3.
And you can make the case maybe it was
going to go down cuz we were at 4 and
1/2 year lows in energy costs.
Now energy prices spike, there's these
dislocations we were talking about
different products, but you've got like
helium and fertilizer. Like,
I'm not sure exactly how they're going
to impact the pricing environment, but
they're not going to help it. They're
going to make it worse.
So, in that kind of world, I you know, I
think we're kind of
we're just kind of stuck. We're up a
tremendous amount of uncertainty and um
it just
makes the outlook much trickier and I
just don't think we could say much about
the
the potential effect of these
transformative technologies on the
supply side of the economy at the
moment. It takes It's going to take a
while. All right, we're going to take
another quick break. When we come back,
more with Joe LaVorgna and Aaron Back.
And uh I think I want to, you know, turn
a little bit more to what things to look
for in the Warsh era. Want to hear a
little bit more about how that might
play out. So, that when we come back.
>> [music]
>> The other thing that Kevin Warsh has
been very known for over the years is
his very public desire for a smaller Fed
balance sheet and uh his very sort of
strong criticisms of the, you know,
massive bond buying that's been
happening over the last, you know, many
years at the Fed.
Um it strikes me as a difficult time to
try to shrink the Fed balance sheet
right now because bond markets are in
some degree of turmoil. Uh bond yields
are rising. Um I think if the Fed were
to try to start selling its bond
holdings now, try to shrink the balance
sheet now,
that could be disruptive. It just
doesn't seem like the right time for
that. Do you agree?
>> Disruptive be an understatement if they
tried to sell. They're not going to
sell. And in fact, when the Fed first
started doing QE, the joke among many
investors and colleagues at the time was
it's like the roach motel. You know, you
you get to check in but you could never
leave.
Uh and that the Fed was never going to
be able to unwind this balance sheet. It
just became too big and the footprint's
too big. And I understand Kevin's desire
to want to try to shrink that balance
sheet all else equal. And there might be
some things at the periphery the Fed can
do
uh taking some of the reserves that are
at the Fed and and perhaps encouraging
banks
uh to to buy Treasury bills. But in
reality the only way the Fed would be
able to shrink the balance sheet is if
it went back to the old regime, the old
process of being in the market every day
open market operations and trying to
target that funds rate to where you want
it to be.
>> of how they operated like pre-financial
crisis.
>> Pre-financial crisis. That was a long
time ago. Today currency in circulation
is a couple of trillion higher. The
Treasury general account because of big
deficits uh is about almost a trillion
higher, 8 900 billion higher than where
it was back then. So there are practical
limitations to actually trying to
achieve if you really wanted to shrink
the footprint.
There's limitations technically on what
you can do and it wouldn't necessarily
be worth it. But as I'm thinking as
you're mentioning these things, Kevin
has been a very traditional kind of
macroeconomist. He's looked at it, you
know, right of center but more
traditional which again would suggest to
me that when he has this role he's going
to be he's going to want to be
persuasive. He's going to want to make
the best arguments he can to pull his
colleagues over to what he thinks the
data is telling him. Uh but he's not
going he's not a dove. Uh I think he's
going to take a holistic, pragmatic
approach. And if anything, I'm going to
guess might err on the side of being
more hawkish not less. And I mention
that because a lot of people are saying,
"Oh, he's going to come in and just
cut." Like no, I don't I don't think you
understand how the Fed works. I don't
think you can understand his MO.
Uh he'll figure out a way to I think he
appease the president. He's very smooth
in a very uh professional uh way
uh that I think he'll if anybody can do
it, he can. But uh I I think he's going
to be rushing to shrink the balance
sheet and and uh for those dislocations
that would inevitably occur, but he may
be more willing to hike rates. That's
where I think you might see the change
of the compromise.
>> So, I what if anything do you think
could be done to improve the interest
rate environment? The long-term interest
rates. Is it Is it a fiscal question at
this point? Is it deficit reduction that
needs to happen?
>> A lot of You'd want to tackle from both
the demand and supply side. So, if you
have a tight labor market, you're going
to get faster wage growth and nominal
income, personal income is a big
variable and There's three pieces to
affordability. There's prices, which are
actually slowing a little bit, but of
course from very high level.
>> Home prices.
>> Income and then and then um
So, it's home prices, income, and then
mortgage rates. And then you've got the
supply issue, which is separate that
would impact prices. In other words,
you'd want to Can you figure out ways
to improve zoning to be able to build
more housing. Can we How can we create
more supply? That takes a while, but it
could be done. And then of course, if
the productivity story's for real and
you get wage growth accelerating and
inflation comes down, then you're
stronger incomes and lower interest
rates. And hopefully in the short term,
if you're doing things to increase
supply, then you won't get higher prices
cuz the thing is if you increase demand
too much relative to supply, you don't
fix the problem you're trying to fix.
So, there'd be a whole host of things
you could do, but just takes time. Like
you can't This can't be solved in in
months and quarters.
>> mean I guess part of what I'm getting at
is you referenced earlier how these
stimulus packages under Trump and Biden
contributed to the post-COVID inflation
surge. How much do you think of what
we're seeing now in terms of inflation,
high interest rates is a fiscal
question? I mean,
is it because of you know, is it we're
running a a fiscal deficit of 6% of GDP?
I mean, is that
Is that a factor?
>> Not yet. It's a factor, very difficult
to quantify. If you look at the calendar
year, budget deficit last year was in
the low fives. It was improving.
Um but you know, when you have higher
inflation and real growth is a bit less
and the Fed's not cutting interest
rates,
you know, all these things all of a
sudden exacerbate the problem very
quickly and you also have higher rates
everywhere else. So, you know, if you're
worried about deficits and debt and
fiscal sustainability, UK would be maybe
the best example, but rates are going
higher in Japan.
>> Yeah.
>> So, it's not just a US story. So, if we
had some
meaningful fiscal progress where we
controlled spending at a better clip,
yeah, that would help. But, you know, I
don't think there's any tolerance on
either side of the political aisle to do
that and when there is a fix, it'll
probably be the market pushing
uh the political body to make a
compromise to actually do something that
they don't want to do and understandably
so. Nobody wants to
you know, be the Grinch that stole
Christmas.
>> So, what's the what's the pathway to
getting inflation under control but not
raising rates in such a way that you
push the economy into recession? And so,
is there a Goldilocks scenario for the
bond market here where
you know, we don't lose control of the
long end and you know, the cost of
mortgages and everything starts going
way up. Uh but, you know,
the the Fed can at least signal, "Okay,
we've got inflation in the crosshairs.
We're going to tackle it now." Is there
a Goldilocks pathway here?
>> would be kind of a stitch in time saves
nine. You start the gradual process of
raising interest rates
with hope that you maybe take some
liquidity out of the market that as
you're gradually raising rates and 100
basis points is not much. I know it
sounds like a lot but it's not. It's
only relative to what the market had
priced, which was easing. And that was
only priced about one hike. But, what
you do is you gradually hike rates and
as more supply comes online you start to
see disinflationary tendencies, then the
Fed can back away. So, there is a
Goldilocks scenario. That's going to be
a fiscal, regulatory, supply dynamic and
we'll see how that plays out. I mean,
I'm ultimately I'm very bullish
long-term and the US is the most dynamic
economy. It came out of COVID better
than any other economy, industrialized
economy in the world. We talk about
productivity growth, dynamism. Look at
US companies. I mean, there's so many
things to be positive about, so I don't
want to be negative. Just in the short
term,
uh we're we're in a situation now in the
Middle East, which is a big problem in
the forecast, and
people aren't sure how it's going to
end. What's the What's the resolution if
there's one? It may not be a resolution.
It may be something that just lingers
without any clear outcome, and in that
environment, we're not getting oil
prices and commodity prices, broadly
speaking, back to their pre-uh Feb 28
when we went in levels, at least not in
the short term, meaning next 6 9 months.
>> Yeah. And those are things like demand
destruction and all that. That Those
take a lot of time to play out, so
>> Yeah, so it's interesting, too, on
inflation. Normally, inflation is a
lagging indicator because, you know, the
economy is growing too strong, demand
outstrips supply, and only with a lag do
you get higher prices. Now, the
economy's been doing well, but you got
the supply shock because of what's
happened in the Middle East, and we're
waiting for the demand destruction. So,
if you're the Fed, the Goldilocks
scenario is, okay, where are the balance
of risk? Is it more likely inflation
stays elevated and trends higher, or do
we like lose the labor market? Labor
market weakens, not maybe offset any
inflationary impulse. Right now, given
low jobless claims, the tax the the
capex spend, I mean, that's income to
companies are building, so the Fed
probably does need to hike at least a
little bit.
Cuz the mistake the last time was, hey,
it's transitory, we're going to wait.
And how did that work out?
>> No one wants to hear that now. No one
wants to hear it's tran-
>> And the Fed is going to be biased to err
on the side of hiking because we've
missed that target for so long.
>> Is there a piece of data that you look
at as as maybe, you know, kind of a
favorite indicator?
>> It'll be very interesting to see how all
these companies that are coming public
in June, what happens to these
companies. And, you know, you see, you
know, we talked about the internet boom.
If some companies, I'm naming names, you
know, their their forward P's have come
down quite dramatically, even though
they've had these incredible price
run-ups. They've had tremendous
earnings. And uh
>> You don't need to I'll I'll name names.
>> Maybe the Maybe the Maybe the Maybe the
companies, [clears throat] you know,
what are the companies saying? What are
they forecasting in terms of their gross
margin and the outlook? I know there's
always going to be something. It's a fun
thing about macroeconomics. It's a
little bit of math, it's a a lot of
history, it's psychology, it's a blend
of different things. I just felt like,
you know, I'm I'm looking at the data.
So, I have to just write something that
might be a little bit provocative, but I
believe in it. The Fed's next move is a
hike, but we'll see. I'll I'll make sure
you get it, whatever it is I write. I
promise. You too, Aaron.
>> All right. We'll be We'll be watching
our inboxes. Joe, thanks so much for
joining us.
>> Thank you. My pleasure.
>> [music]
>> If you had to predict when when you
think What do you think the next thing
you'll write about is?
>> I don't know. All the good stuff I don't
like to write.
>> [laughter]
>> There's no There's old adage, you know,
always in never in writing, always in
cash.
I sort of say that tongue in cheek.
>> [music]